@BIN_UPPER@
mtRDC @APP_VERSION@
%%date(%Y-%m-%d)

%!encoding: utf-8


= NAME =
@BIN_NAME@ - random data creator


= SYNOPSIS =
**@BIN_NAME@** [ **OPTIONS** ]


= DESCRIPTION =
mtRDC is a command line program that offers various tools for creating random
data.


= OPTIONS =
**--version**
	Output version information and exit.
**-create-matrix**
	Create a TSV output file with data in the cells from the PRNG.
**-create-passwords**
	Create passwords using the pad, putting them into the output file.
	**-iterations** passwords are created if the pad is large enough.
**-create-prng**
	Create a binary output file with data from the PRNG.
**-create-shuffle**
	Create an output file by shuffling the input file bytes using the pad.
**-create-unshuffle**
	Create an output file by unshuffling the input file bytes using the pad.
**-create-xor**
	Create an output file by XOR'ing each byte of the input file with
	bytes from the pad.  The pad must have enough bytes to match the input
	file otherwise an error is generated.
**-i** STRING
	Set input filename.
**-iterations** INTEGER
	Total iterations (default=1000000).
**-matrix-cols** INTEGER
	Matrix column total (default=1000).
**-matrix-rows** INTEGER
	Matrix row total (default=1000).
**-o** STRING
	Set output filename.
**-pad** STRING
	Set pad filename.
**-pad-start** INTEGER
	Byte offset to start reading the pad from (default=0).
**-password-chars** STRING
	Set password characters (2-128 chars, default=0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz).
**-password-len** INTEGER
	Set password length (4-128, default=10).
**-print-analysis**
	Analyse the input file statistically.
**-seed** INTEGER
	Set PRNG seed (default=time).


= HOMEPAGE =
http://mtcelledit.sourceforge.net/


= AUTHOR =
Mark Tyler
