.TH "PIXYUTILS" 1 "2018-02-24" "mtPixyUtils 3.1"


.SH NAME

.P
pixyutils \- command line graphics program

.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
\fBpixyutils\fR [OPTION]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
mtCedUtils is a collection of command line functions for manipulating image files.  These functions can be executed using \fBpixyutils\fR or the function names directly as listed in the \fBSEE ALSO\fR section.

.SH OPTIONS

.P
\fB\-\-version\fR

.RS
Output version information and exit.
.RE

.P
\fB\-com\fR STRING

.RS
Change command (with or without pixy prefix).  Available commands:
pixyls, pixynew, pixyresize, pixyscale.
.RE

.P
\fB\-comp_jpeg\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set compression level for JPEG files. Default=85
.RE

.P
\fB\-comp_png\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set compression level for PNG files. Default=6
.RE

.P
\fB\-height\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set new image width.
.RE

.P
\fB\-i\fR STRING

.RS
Load this input file.
.RE

.P
\fB\-imtype\fR STRING

.RS
Image format of new image (use 'list' to list types, default=indexed).
.RE

.P
\fB\-o\fR STRING

.RS
Save current image to this file (immediately).
.RE

.P
\fB\-otype\fR STRING

.RS
Output format of file (use 'list' to list types, default=none).
.RE

.P
\fB\-scale_blocky\fR

.RS
With RGB images use the blocky scale method.
.RE

.P
\fB\-v\fR

.RS
Verbose.
.RE

.P
\fB\-width\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set new image height.
.RE

.P
\fB\-x\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set image X.
.RE

.P
\fB\-y\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set image Y.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

.P
pixydelta(1), pixyls(1), pixynew(1), pixyresize(1), pixypica(1), pixyresize(1), pixyriba(1), pixyrida(1), pixyrisa(1), pixyscale(1)

.SH HOMEPAGE

.P
http://mtcelledit.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR

.P
Mark Tyler

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -o - -i -
