= NAME =
@BIN_NAME@ - command line graphics program


= SYNOPSIS =
**@BIN_NAME@** [OPTION]...


= DESCRIPTION =
mtPixyUtils is a collection of command line functions for manipulating image files.  These functions can be executed using **pixyutils** or the function names directly as listed in the **SEE ALSO** section.


= OPTIONS =
**--version**
	Output version information and exit.
**-com** STRING
	Change command (with or without pixy prefix).  Available commands:
	pixyls, pixynew, pixyresize, pixyscale.
**-comp_jpeg** INTEGER
	Set compression level for JPEG files. Default=85
**-comp_png** INTEGER
	Set compression level for PNG files. Default=6
**-dir** STRING
	Save frames to this directory.
**-fps** INTEGER
	Set the frames per second. Default=30
**-frame0** INTEGER
	Set the start frame. Default=0
**-height** INTEGER
	Set new image width.
**-i** STRING
	Load this input file.
**-imtype** STRING
	Image format of new image (use 'list' to list types, default=indexed).
**-o** STRING
	Save current image to this file (immediately).
**-otype** STRING
	Output format of file (use 'list' to list types, default=none).
**-prefix** STRING
	Output file prefix.  Default=""
**-scale_blocky**
	With RGB images use the blocky scale method.
**-seconds** INTEGER
	Set the fade duration. Default=1
**-v**
	Verbose.
**-width** INTEGER
	Set new image height.
**-x** INTEGER
	Set image X.
**-y** INTEGER
	Set image Y.


= SEE ALSO =
pixydelta(1),
pixyfade(1),
pixyls(1),
pixynew(1),
pixypica(1),
pixyresize(1),
pixyresize(1),
pixyriba(1),
pixyrida(1),
pixyrisa(1),
pixyscale(1)
