CEDUTILS
mtCedUtils @APP_VERSION@
%%date(%Y-%m-%d)

%!encoding: utf-8


= NAME =
cedutils - spreadsheet utilities


= SYNOPSIS =
**cedutils** [ **OPTION** ]...


= DESCRIPTION =
mtCedUtils is a collection of command line functions for manipulating TSV or CSV spreadsheet text.  These functions can be executed using **cedutils** or the function names directly as listed in the **SEE ALSO** section.


= OPTIONS =
**--version**
	Output version information and exit.
**-anti**
	Rotate clockwise (default).
**-case**
	Case sensitive search.
**-clock**
	Rotate clockwise (default).
**-col**
	**cedappend** - Place the following files horizontally.
	**cedcut** - Cut column(s).
	**cedflip** - Flip columns horizontally.
	**cedinsert** - Insert column(s).
	**cedsort** - Sort columns.
**-com** STRING
	Change command (with or without ced prefix).  Available commands:
	cedappend,
	cedclear,
	cedcut,
	ceddiff,
	cedeval,
	cedfind,
	cedflip,
	cedinsert,
	cedls,
	cedpaste,
	cedrotate,
	cedset,
	cedsort,
	cedtranspose
**-csv**
	The following input file is CSV.
**-dest** STRING
	Paste to this section of the sheet (default = r1c1:r1c1 ).
	When a single cell, paste whole of input.  Otherwise truncate
	or repeat input data to fill the dest range.
**-i** STRING
	Load this input file.  "-" loads from stdin.
**-num**
	Find numerical value.
**-o** STRING
	Save current sheet to this file (immediately).  "-" prints to stdout.
**-otype** STRING
	Output format of file (use 'list' to list types, default=TSV content).
**-range** STRING
	**cedclear** - Clear these cells (default = r1c1:r_c_ ).
	**cedfind** - Search in this range (default = r1c1:r_c_ ).
	**cedpaste** - Paste from this section of the input file (default = r1c1:r_c_ ).
**-recalc** INTEGER
	Recalculate the sheet this many times (top-bottom, bottom-top).
**-row**
	**cedappend** - Place the following files vertically (default).
	**cedcut** - Cut row(s) (default).
	**cedlip** - Flip rows vertically (default).
	**cedinsert** - Insert row(s) (default).
	**cedsort** - Sort rows (default)
**-start** INTEGER
	**cedcut** - Start cutting at this row or column (default = 1).
	**cedinsert** - Start inserting at this row or column (default = 1).
	**cedsort** - First row/column to sort from (default = 1).
**-total** INTEGER
	**cedcut** - Total number of rows or columns to cut (default = 1).
	**cedinsert** - Total number of rows or columns to insert (default = 1).
	**cedsort** - Total rows/colums to sort (default = 1 = all).
**-tsv**
	The following input file is TSV (default).
**-v**
	Verbose.
	**cedfind** - Output the cell content as well as the address.
**-wildcard**
	* and ? characters are wildcards.


= SEE ALSO =
cedappend(1),
cedclear(1),
cedcut(1),
ceddiff(1),
cedeval(1),
cedfind(1),
cedflip(1),
cedinsert(1),
cedls(1),
cedpaste(1),
cedrotate(1),
cedset(1),
cedsort(1),
cedtranspose(1)


= HOMEPAGE =
http://mtcelledit.sourceforge.net/


= AUTHOR =
Mark Tyler
