.TH "CEDUTILS" 1 "2018-02-24" "mtCedUtils 3.1"


.SH NAME

.P
cedutils \- spreadsheet utilities

.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
\fBcedutils\fR [ \fBOPTION\fR ]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
mtCedUtils is a collection of command line functions for manipulating TSV or CSV spreadsheet text.  These functions can be executed using \fBcedutils\fR or the function names directly as listed in the \fBSEE ALSO\fR section.

.SH OPTIONS

.P
\fB\-\-version\fR

.RS
Output version information and exit.
.RE

.P
\fB\-anti\fR

.RS
Rotate clockwise (default).
.RE

.P
\fB\-case\fR

.RS
Case sensitive search.
.RE

.P
\fB\-clock\fR

.RS
Rotate clockwise (default).
.RE

.P
\fB\-col\fR

.RS
\fBcedappend\fR \- Place the following files horizontally.
\fBcedcut\fR \- Cut column(s).
\fBcedflip\fR \- Flip columns horizontally.
\fBcedinsert\fR \- Insert column(s).
\fBcedsort\fR \- Sort columns.
.RE

.P
\fB\-com\fR STRING

.RS
Change command (with or without ced prefix).  Available commands:
cedappend,
cedclear,
cedcut,
ceddiff,
cedeval,
cedfind,
cedflip,
cedinsert,
cedls,
cedpaste,
cedrotate,
cedset,
cedsort,
cedtranspose
.RE

.P
\fB\-csv\fR

.RS
The following input file is CSV.
.RE

.P
\fB\-dest\fR STRING

.RS
Paste to this section of the sheet (default = r1c1:r1c1 ).
When a single cell, paste whole of input.  Otherwise truncate
or repeat input data to fill the dest range.
.RE

.P
\fB\-i\fR STRING

.RS
Load this input file.  "\-" loads from stdin.
.RE

.P
\fB\-num\fR

.RS
Find numerical value.
.RE

.P
\fB\-o\fR STRING

.RS
Save current sheet to this file (immediately).  "\-" prints to stdout.
.RE

.P
\fB\-otype\fR STRING

.RS
Output format of file (use 'list' to list types, default=TSV content).
.RE

.P
\fB\-range\fR STRING

.RS
\fBcedclear\fR \- Clear these cells (default = r1c1:r_c_ ).
\fBcedfind\fR \- Search in this range (default = r1c1:r_c_ ).
\fBcedpaste\fR \- Paste from this section of the input file (default = r1c1:r_c_ ).
\fBcedfuzzmap\fR \- Set range for the following file.
.RE

.P
\fB\-recalc\fR INTEGER

.RS
Recalculate the sheet this many times (top\-bottom, bottom\-top).
.RE

.P
\fB\-row\fR

.RS
\fBcedappend\fR \- Place the following files vertically (default).
\fBcedcut\fR \- Cut row(s) (default).
\fBcedlip\fR \- Flip rows vertically (default).
\fBcedinsert\fR \- Insert row(s) (default).
\fBcedsort\fR \- Sort rows (default)
.RE

.P
\fB\-start\fR INTEGER

.RS
\fBcedcut\fR \- Start cutting at this row or column (default = 1).
\fBcedinsert\fR \- Start inserting at this row or column (default = 1).
\fBcedsort\fR \- First row/column to sort from (default = 1).
.RE

.P
\fB\-total\fR INTEGER

.RS
\fBcedcut\fR \- Total number of rows or columns to cut (default = 1).
\fBcedinsert\fR \- Total number of rows or columns to insert (default = 1).
\fBcedsort\fR \- Total rows/colums to sort (default = 1 = all).
.RE

.P
\fB\-tsv\fR

.RS
The following input file is TSV (default).
.RE

.P
\fB\-v\fR

.RS
Verbose.
\fBcedfind\fR \- Output the cell content as well as the address.
.RE

.P
\fB\-wildcard\fR

.RS
* and ? characters are wildcards.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

.P
cedappend(1),
cedclear(1),
cedcut(1),
ceddiff(1),
cedeval(1),
cedfind(1),
cedflip(1),
cedfuzzmap(1),
cedinsert(1),
cedls(1),
cedpaste(1),
cedrotate(1),
cedset(1),
cedsort(1),
cedtranspose(1)

.SH HOMEPAGE

.P
http://mtcelledit.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR

.P
Mark Tyler

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -o - -i -
