.TH "MTRDC" 1 "2018-08-22" "mtCedUtils 3.2"


.SH NAME

.P
mtrdc \- random data creator

.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
\fBmtrdc\fR [ \fBOPTIONS\fR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
mtRDC is a command line program that offers various tools for creating random
data.

.SH OPTIONS

.P
\fB\-\-version\fR

.RS
Output version information and exit.
.RE

.P
\fB\-create\-matrix\fR

.RS
Create a TSV output file with data in the cells from the PRNG.
.RE

.P
\fB\-create\-passwords\fR

.RS
Create passwords using the pad, putting them into the output file.
\fB\-iterations\fR passwords are created if the pad is large enough.
.RE

.P
\fB\-create\-prng\fR

.RS
Create a binary output file with data from the PRNG.
.RE

.P
\fB\-create\-shuffle\fR

.RS
Create an output file by shuffling the input file bytes using the pad.
.RE

.P
\fB\-create\-unshuffle\fR

.RS
Create an output file by unshuffling the input file bytes using the pad.
.RE

.P
\fB\-create\-xor\fR

.RS
Create an output file by XOR'ing each byte of the input file with
bytes from the pad.  The pad must have enough bytes to match the input
file otherwise an error is generated.
.RE

.P
\fB\-i\fR STRING

.RS
Set input filename.
.RE

.P
\fB\-iterations\fR INTEGER

.RS
Total iterations (default=1000000).
.RE

.P
\fB\-matrix\-cols\fR INTEGER

.RS
Matrix column total (default=1000).
.RE

.P
\fB\-matrix\-rows\fR INTEGER

.RS
Matrix row total (default=1000).
.RE

.P
\fB\-o\fR STRING

.RS
Set output filename.
.RE

.P
\fB\-pad\fR STRING

.RS
Set pad filename.
.RE

.P
\fB\-pad\-start\fR INTEGER

.RS
Byte offset to start reading the pad from (default=0).
.RE

.P
\fB\-password\-chars\fR STRING

.RS
Set password characters (2\-128 chars, default=0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz).
.RE

.P
\fB\-password\-len\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set password length (4\-128, default=10).
.RE

.P
\fB\-print\-analysis\fR

.RS
Analyse the input file statistically.
.RE

.P
\fB\-seed\fR INTEGER

.RS
Set PRNG seed (default=time).
.RE

.SH HOMEPAGE

.P
http://ced.marktyler.org/

.SH AUTHOR

.P
Mark Tyler

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -o - -i -
