= NAME =
@BIN_NAME@ - Landscape terraformer explorer


= SYNOPSIS =
**@BIN_NAME@** [ **OPTIONS** ]... [ FILENAME ]


= DESCRIPTION =
@BIN_NAME@ visually explores an OpenGL scene containing a terraformed landscape.
Left mouse click to move the camera in that given direction, right click to tilt the camera in that direction.
Use the **Arrow Keys** to move, with **Shift** to move more quickly, or the
**Ctrl** key to shift the view in that direction.
The **F1** key prints the current position to stdout.
The **s** key dumps the current image to the user's home directory.
The **Home** key returns to the start position.
The **Escape** key terminates the program, when not processing.
The **End** key Redraws the current view.
Zoom in and out using the keys **Page Up**, **Page Down**, with **Shift** to speed this up.
In animation mode, the **Escape** key terminates the job.


= OPTIONS =
**--version**
	Output version information and exit.

**-dir** STRING
	Output directory for saving animation frames.

**-fps** INTEGER
	Frames per second of the animation (10 to 120). Default = 60.

**-oh** INTEGER
	Fix output pixmap height (128 to 15360). Default = 0, which allows the window to resize.

**-ow** INTEGER
	Fix output pixmap width (128 to 15360). Default = 0, which allows the window to resize.

**-prefs** STRING
	Use this file for GUI program preferences (e.g. window position).

**-savemap** STRING
	Save the map data to this TSV file.

**-seed** INTEGER
	Set the PRNG seed to this before generating the landscape. Default = 0.

**-size** INTEGER
	Set the size of the landscape (4 to 10). Default = 6 : (1 << 6)+1 = 65 rows.

**-tsv** STRING
	Create an animation using this TSV file.

**-v**
	Verbose.


= EXAMPLE =
**@BIN_NAME@** -ow 1920 -oh 1080 -tsv test/lanter_001_lights.tsv


= FILES =
~/.config/@BIN_NAME@/prefs.txt
	Default file used for storing user preferences.
