= NAME =
@BIN_NAME@ - mandelbrot set explorer


= SYNOPSIS =
**@BIN_NAME@** [ **OPTIONS** ]... [ FILENAME ]


= DESCRIPTION =
@BIN_NAME@ visually explores the Mandelbrot set.
As and when required, big numbers, or arbitrary precision floating point numbers are used instead of the normal double precision floats.
Left mouse click to move the centre of the zoom box, right click to zoom in.
Use the **Arrow Keys** to move, with **Shift** to move more quickly, or the
**Ctrl** key to shift the view in that direction.
The **F1** key prints the current position to stdout.
The **s** key dumps the current image to the user's home directory.
The **Home** key returns to the start position.
The **Delete** or **Escape** keys terminate the current processing job.
The **q** key terminates the program, when not processing.
The **End** key Redraws the current view.
Zoom in and out using the keys **Page Up**, **Page Down**, **Enter**, **+**, **-**.


= OPTIONS =
**--version**
	Output version information and exit.

**-cx** DECIMAL
	The X coordinate for the centre of the plot (-2.0 to 2.0). Default = 0.0.

**-cy** DECIMAL
	The Y coordinate for the centre of the plot (-2.0 to 2.0). Default = 0.0.

**-depth** INTEGER
	Maximum depth of iterations (8 to 16777216). Default = 1024.

**-dz_double**
	Set the deep zoom type to double (64 bits, very fast but limited).

**-dz_float**
	Set the deep zoom type to float (256 bits).

**-dz_float_fast**
	Set the deep zoom type to float (128 bits).

**-dz_none**
	Set the deep zoom type to none (blank).

**-dz_rational**
	Set the deep zoom type to rational (unlimited bits, perfect accuracy, **VERY** slow).

**-dz_on**
	Switch to deep zoom type when reaching the limit of a double (default).

**-dz_always**
	Use the deep zoom type for all renders.

**-oh** INTEGER
	Output pixmap height (16 to 15360). Default = 500.

**-ow** INTEGER
	Output pixmap width (16 to 15360). Default = 500.

**-prefs** STRING
	Use this file for GUI program preferences (e.g. window position).

**-q**
	Quiet mode.

**-range** DECIMAL
	Range of the plot width (maximum 20.0). Default = 4.0.

**-threads** INTEGER
	Use this number of threads for the calculations (1 to 16). Default = 0
	which detects the number of available of threads on the CPU.


= EXAMPLE =
**@BIN_NAME@** -cx 0.5 -cy 0.2 -threads 5


= FILES =
~/.config/@BIN_NAME@/prefs.txt
	Default file used for storing user preferences.
