
%!postproc: '(?i)(</head>)' '<TITLE>The mtPixy Handbook - Appendix A - Miscellaneous</TITLE>\1'


[Previous chap_04.html] | [Contents chap_00.html] | [Next chap_B.html]
-------------------------------------------------

=Appendix A - Miscellaneous=



==A.1 Limitations==[SEC1]

As with all software, mtPixy has some limitations.  In some cases any attempt to overcome these limitations would invalidate the purpose and philosophy of the project.  Therefore I am documenting these limitations in order to explain the policy decisions I have taken.  However, mtPixy is free software so if anyone disagrees then they are free to fork the code and implement their own ideas.

I regard mtPixy as feature complete so I do not plan to add any new features.  However I am always happy to tweak things here and there to make the tool more useful.  If you think there are some areas of the project that need improvement please contact me.



===A.1.1 Localization===[SEC11]

mtPixy is entirely written in English.  It should be possible to translate to any other language, but I do not have those skills so somebody else will have to do that work.



==A.2 Supported File Types==[SEC2]


| BMP    | Load/Save uncompressed RGB/Indexed | Palettes are only saved with indexed images. |
| GIF    | Load/Save Indexed | Palettes are always saved with the image. |
| GPL    | Load/Save Palettes |  |
| JPEG   | Load/Save RGB | Palettes are not saved. |
| PNG    | Load/Save RGB/Indexed | Palettes are always saved with the image. Alpha channels can be loaded, saved, removed, but not edited. |






-------------------------------------------------
[Previous chap_04.html] | [Contents chap_00.html] | [Next chap_B.html]
